
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# MPTevol

<!-- badges: start -->
<!-- badges: end -->

Multiple primary tumors (MPT) is a special and rare cancer type, defined
as more than two primary tumors presenting at the diagnosis in a single
patient. The molecular characteristics and tumorigenesis of MPT remain
unclear due to insufficient approaches.

Here, we present `MPTevol`, a practical computational framework for
comprehensively exploring the MPT from **multiregional sequencing
(MRS)** experiments. `MPTevol` facilitates comparison genomic profiles
across multiple primary tumor samples, detection of clonal evolutionary
history and metastatic routines in MPT, and quantification of metastatic
history. This package incorporates multiple cancer evolution analyses,
for a one-stop solution of MPT analysis.The goal of MPTevol is to
provide a practical computation framework for dissecting the evolution
of multiple primary tumors (MPT), reducing analysis complexity with
modular design.

## Package Overview

![](man/figures/MPTevol.jpg)

## Citations

If you are using the MPTevol in academic research, please cite our
paper:

**Chen, Q., Wu, Q.-N., Rong, Y.-M., Wang, S., Zuo, Z., Bai, L., . . .
Zhao, Q. (2022). Deciphering clonal dynamics and metastatic routines in
a rare patient of synchronous triple-primary tumors and multiple
metastases with MPTevol. Briefings in Bioinformatics.
<doi:10.1093/bib/bbac175>**

## Installation

You can install the development version of MPTevol from
[GitHub](https://github.com/) with:

``` r
# install.packages("remotes")
remotes::install_github("qingjian1991/MPTevol")
```

## Documentation

The overview of usage could be found at [MPTevol online
vignette](https://rpubs.com/cqj_00/MPTevol).

## Package structure

![](man/figures/MPTevol_Structure.jpg)

## Authors

This software is developed by:

-   Qingjian Chen, <chenqingjian2010@163.com>, Sun Yat-Sen Univerity
    Cancer Center.
-   Shixiang Wang, <w_shixiang@163.com>, Sun Yat-Sen Univerity Cancer
    Center.

## Supervised by

-   [Qi Zhao](zhaoqi@sysucc.org.cn) from Bioinformatic Center of Sun
    Yat-sen University Cancer Center.
